.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Summary
<!-- Provide a brief description of the changes in this PR -->

## Type of Change
<!-- Please check the relevant options: -->
- [ ] Feature
- [ ] Bug Fix
- [ ] Task
- [ ] Documentation Update
- [ ] Other (please describe):

## Related Issues
<!-- Link to related issues (e.g., Closes #123, Fixes #456) -->
- Related to: #

## Changes Made
<!-- Describe the specific changes made in this PR -->
- 
- 
- 

## Testing
<!-- Describe the testing performed -->
- [ ] Unit tests added/updated
- [ ] Integration tests added/updated
- [ ] Manual testing performed
- [ ] Tests pass locally

### Test Coverage
<!-- If applicable, describe test coverage for new code -->

## Documentation
<!-- Check if documentation was updated -->
- [ ] README.md updated
- [ ] Code comments/docstrings added
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated (if applicable)
- [ ] Other documentation updated (please specify):

## Checklist
<!-- Please ensure all items are completed before requesting review -->
- [ ] Code follows project code standards (see `docs/code_standards.md`)
- [ ] All tests pass
- [ ] Code has been reviewed for quality and style
- [ ] Documentation is up to date
- [ ] No merge conflicts
- [ ] Branch is up to date with target branch

## Screenshots/Examples
<!-- If applicable, add screenshots or examples to demonstrate the changes -->

## Additional Notes
<!-- Any additional information for reviewers -->

Commit message:

feat: add automated release creation workflow and update PR template for release information

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Summary
<!-- Provide a brief description of the changes in this PR -->

## Release Information
<!-- For PRs from development → main, please provide release details -->
- [ ] This PR is for a release (development → main)
- **Release Tag:** `v1.0.0` <!-- e.g., v1.0.0, v1.2.3, etc. -->
- **Milestone:** <!-- Link to milestone (e.g., Milestone: v1.0.0 or Milestone: Sprint 2024-02) -->

## Type of Change
<!-- Please check the relevant options: -->
- [ ] Feature
- [ ] Bug Fix
- [ ] Task
- [ ] Documentation Update
- [ ] Other (please describe):

## Related Issues
<!-- Link to related issues (e.g., Closes #123, Fixes #456) -->
- Related to: #

## Changes Made
<!-- Describe the specific changes made in this PR -->
- 
- 
- 

## Testing
<!-- Describe the testing performed -->
- [ ] Unit tests added/updated
- [ ] Integration tests added/updated
- [ ] Manual testing performed
- [ ] Tests pass locally

### Test Coverage
<!-- If applicable, describe test coverage for new code -->

## Documentation
<!-- Check if documentation was updated -->
- [ ] README.md updated
- [ ] Code comments/docstrings added
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated (if applicable)
- [ ] Other documentation updated (please specify):

## Checklist
<!-- Please ensure all items are completed before requesting review -->
- [ ] Code follows project code standards (see `docs/code_standards.md`)
- [ ] All tests pass
- [ ] Code has been reviewed for quality and style
- [ ] Documentation is up to date
- [ ] No merge conflicts
- [ ] Branch is up to date with target branch

## Screenshots/Examples
<!-- If applicable, add screenshots or examples to demonstrate the changes -->

## Additional Notes
<!-- Any additional information for reviewers -->
